What Mrs Simpson Knows About Immigrants

by Kinneson Lalor

Susie lifts the lid of the abandoned teapot and swirls the water. The teabag sloshes against the sides. The tea is cold and bitter, but Susie doesn’t mind because her landlady, Mrs Simpson, normally reuses tea bags. Usually, by the time Susie gets home, the tea mostly tastes of chlorine. 

As she checks Mrs Simpson’s calendar, Susie rubs the place where the elastic cap from work scrunched all day. A play. The skin feels puckered and soft, like white and wrinkly fingertips in the bath. Her mother used to read beside the clawfoot bathtub her father imported from England. Susie—who wasn’t a Susie at all then—would tuck her chin over the edge of the tub and listen. The water would go cold. Her skin would loose and crinkle.

Mrs Simpson only makes fresh tea for Mr Johnson next door. One cup still contains a moss-smoke slick of whiskey. Susie wipes the rim of the cup with her sleeve then pours herself some tea. The whiskey is too dilute to be warm but it’s nice to know it’s there. 

In the kitchen window, she sees the red elastic mark below her hairline. She suppresses a sigh and the air sits heavy in her chest. Susie has a knack for ignoring discomfit. It comes in handy at the factory. She felt an itch that morning but didn’t scratch it until after her shift had ended. 

She scrubs her face pink before each shift. A single flake of dead skin can ruin a microchip.  But the factory is also vacuum-dry and she has to moisturise often. She can only afford sunflower oil. For the whole day, she breathes the bitter staleness of cooking oil trapped behind the mask. Her tongue is always wool. In the dust-free factory, her mouth fills with the rat-grey feel of it. She swallows the tea. Even if it’s a matinee, Mr Johnson will insist on dinner. Mrs Simpson will pay.

Susie climbs the stairs to Mrs Simpson’s room and tries the door. It’s locked. In the shower room Susie shares with the taxi driver she’s never met, she finds hairpins strewn around the sink. She’s not sure if they are Mrs Simpson’s or if the taxi driver has female guests. Guests aren’t allowed, of course, but Susie doesn’t know enough about the taxi driver to know if he’s the type to flaunt the rules.

She picks the lock to Mrs Simpson’s room. Susie’s in there every week to clean, but only under Mrs Simpson’s watchful eye. Mrs Simpson doesn’t trust people. She especially doesn’t trust immigrants. Susie wonders why Mrs Simpson decided to live with two (Susie knows the taxi driver is an immigrant because Mrs Simpson often says: ‘Oh, I suppose you two are exceptions to the rule’, the rule being that immigrants impact everything in Mrs Simpson’s life and society and the country negatively). Susie suspects it has something to do with the small rooms and the black mould that spots the wallpaper. Also, in her interview for the room, Mrs Simpson clearly stated she was looking for someone who works during the day. She already had someone who worked during the night. If she fell and broke her hip at midnight, she needed to know she could rely on the person to be in. Susie thinks this sort of responsibility might put people off.

Like the factory, Mrs Simpson’s room tries hard to be dust-free and clean, but it smells of urine. Susie suspects Mrs Simpson wets the bed and doesn’t know. 

Susie can go a whole twelve-hour shift without the bathroom. Some of the others use plastic bottles under the conveyor belt and inside their suits. The company allows for five-minute breaks every three hours, but it takes longer than that just to come back through decontamination.

Susie hangs her towel on the radiator, curling her fingers around the warm bars. Along the shelves are glass jars of coloured salts, and powders, and liquids. She opens a jar and inhales. Lavender. She remembers her mother’s long dark hair, the thin stripes of grey. The flat crystals dissolve into oil that disappears in her dry palms. She sprinkles some into the water. Not as many as she would like, but some. She presses her nose to the clean towels stacked on the shelf. Washing powder and sunshine. Her own towel smells of old socks and the unwashed skin scent that leaks under the door of the taxi driver’s room.

She waves her hands through the steam of the running tap. In the factory, the conveyor belts move with constant speed, greased silent. If she’s thinking of something else, like the seamless way her mother poured tea or her father’s whiskers above her mother’s delicate cups, she will think the belt has stopped. She will think the microchips are standing still and the only sound is her circling, oily breath. Then she’ll hear the sticky peel of a defect from further along the belt and she’ll remember where she is.

She slips into the water. She inhales. She prepares for the lavender memory of her mother’s cheek against her forehead. But all she smells is chlorine and the wet-dogness of her towel. Still, she resolves to enjoy it.

The water slinks past her skin, touches her lips. She licks them dry. She imagines her mother’s perfectly brewed tea. She takes a deep breath. Exhales. After, she will change Mrs Simpson’s sheets, and hopefully, Mrs Simpson will never know.
